- [Instructor] Part of being a good steward
in teaching JDBC is to make sure
that we can baseline on the terminology of the API
in order that when I make statements
you'll understand exactly what they mean.
One of the first things I want to talk
about are all the ways to do connections
and what these various terms mean.
Now, DriverManager is sort of the legacy way
of connecting to databases and throughout this course,
we're going to actually leverage DriverManager
because we're not doing anything
that's too complex or that's multi threaded.
As such DriverManager should operate with everything
that we need in order to get simple connections.
Now, in the real world, if you're building systems,
especially those systems that have multiple threads running
at once, you're going to want to use the data source classes
in order to get your connection.
These data source classes provide a modern way
of interacting with the driver itself,
providing things like thread pooling,
and other metrics that make connecting
to the database more efficient.
The connection itself is the class
that the developer interacts with
that manages the actual communication
between the client and the server.
And, indeed, the connection is the most common thing
that we will use throughout the rest of this course.
Now, when we're dealing with executions
there's a few terms that we need to know as well.
Now, a statement is the representation of the SQL
to be executed against the database itself.
And it can either be a query or an actual SQL statement
that is going to modify the database.
A ResultSet is the response from the database
in a logical tabular form and we're going to spin
through that ResultSet to pull data out
and also to manipulate the data as we get it out.
A PreparedStatement is an extension of statement
that is used for pre-compiled statements with inputs.
This is a great way to improve your efficiency
of your database, especially when you're dealing
with large statements that need to be compiled at runtime.
Now, a CallableStatement is an extension
of PreparedStatement that references
a stored procedure in the database.
And a stored procedure has inputs and outputs.
Now, most of the time in modern computing,
we don't do a lot with PreparedStatements
and that's because it's too difficult
to manipulate your code in two different places.
But just for the purposes of this course,
we are going to manipulate PreparedStatements
because I want to show you how that works
in case you are in a development shop
that does use PreparedStatements on a regular basis.
And I know they're out there cause I see them all the time.
Now, transactions are one of the most powerful parts
of RDBMS, a transaction allows you to have
a block of code that all executes
together with a single commit.
Now, there's multiple ways to make these commits happen.
And the first is an auto-commit and this is a function
of the database driver itself, where each statement
is immediately readable, by all of the processes,
once it's executed in the RDBMS.
In other words, the statement
is actually committed immediately
when you call it into the database.
A transaction is a series of statements
that must be executed completely or not at all
before other processes can read them.
Now, there are ways to manipulate
when I say other processes can read them,
but for the basic rule of thumb,
and the way that most of us will always interact
with databases this transaction boundary allows us
to have a guarantee that if I want
to go execute five statements and all five must happen
before we write them out of the database that I can do that.
If there's a failure in that use case,
that's where we get into the rollback segment.
And this is a mechanism by which all of the statements
of a transaction are removed from the database,
such that it would appear to all current
and future processes as this had never occurred.
This is atomic transactions at its core.
From a user perspective, I can guarantee
that all the transactions happen or none of them do,
which is what we want when we're dealing with systems
that require this high level of coordination
between multiple tables in an RDBMS.